Religion thus becomes integrated with life .
As I have said , words from Tennyson remain ever in my memory : `` That mind and soul , according well , May make one music as before '' .
It was not until we had returned to the city to live , while I was still at Brown and Sharpe's , that I felt the full impact of evangelical Christianity .
There are some people , intelligent people , who seem to be untouched by the sea of wonder in which we are immersed and in which we spend our lives .
This is a straightforward denial of the spiritual world and a vigorous defense of pure materialism .
They are not true because scientists or prophets say they are true .
When the young biologist , Dr. Ballard , began to show interest in our daughter Elizabeth , this induced a corresponding interest , on our part , in him .
The actual impelling force which severed me from evangelical effort was of another sort .
Wonder is indeed the intellectual gateway to the spiritual world .
It is puzzling to the occidental mind ( to mine at least ) to assign `` sacredness '' to animal , insect , and plant life .
For them only a little more needed to be learned , and then all physical knowledge could be neatly sorted , packaged and put in the inventory to be drawn on for the solution of any human problem .
Says he , `` I may never imagine that in the struggle between personal and supra-personal responsibility it is possible to make a compromise between the ethical and the purposive in the shape of a relative ethic ; ;
This was taken after I came to live in Springfield , and it was made under the guidance of the Reverend Raymond Beardslee , a young preacher who came to the Congregational Church there at about the same time that I moved from New York .
So far as `` sacredness '' inheres in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality , whether in Lambarene , Africa , or in Washington , D.C. .
His inability to wonder vitiates his argument .
For this decision a man must take personal responsibility .
I went to an afternoon service at the Aj .
One of them is that it gives meaning and purpose to life .
Much of this lacked the active support of the pastor .
I became disgusted at being so preoccupied with the state of my own miserable soul .
There are millions who accept this doctrine , but few indeed are those who accept it so truly that the fate of humanity lies as a weight on their souls night and day .
No one is to judge others '' .
I do not claim to be free from sin , or from the need for repentance and forgiveness .
His father was a professor at Hartford Theological Seminary , and from him he acquired a conviction , which he passed along to me , that there is in the universe of persons a moral law , the law of love , which is a natural law in the same sense as is the physical law .
This complacency was blown to bits by the relativity of Einstein , the revelation of the complex anatomy of the atom and the discovery of the expanding universe .
Once or twice my father asked me if I wasn't overdoing a bit in my churchgoing .
This intellectual approach to spiritual life suited me well , because I was never content to lead a divided life .
I engaged more and more in religious activities .
No load of sin had been laid on my shoulders , nor did earnest effort enable me to become conscious of one .
None of these discoveries were neatly rounded off bits of knowledge .
Meanwhile I myself was not yet saved .
If disobeyed , the result is turmoil and chaos .
I went to the Christian Endeavor Society and to the evening service of the church .
This viewpoint I find interesting , but it has never weighed on my soul .
One cannot read the records of scientists , officials and travelers who have penetrated to the minds of the most savage races without realizing that each individual met with is a person .
In my experience the assurance of forgiveness comes only when I have confessed to the wronged one and have made as full reparation as I can devise .
With this conviction , the partition between the sacred and the secular disappears .
yet here was a depth of sensibility which is lacking in a considerable portion of the beneficiaries of our civilization .
It is not the authority of God Himself which makes them true .
This was a profound statement .
another by giving away his property in order to help his fellow man .
An uncompromising belief in the moral law has the advantage of making religion natural , even as physical law is natural .
One's daily work becomes sacred , since it is performed in the field of influence of the moral law , dealing as it does with people as well as with matter and energy .
He was then noting that the big eye on the little newt hung back until the little eye had grown up to it , while the little eye on the big newt grew rapidly until it was as big as the other .
The young people were self-energizing , and I was energized .
I was familiar with Pilgrim's Progress , which I read as literature .
One serves society by conducting a business from which a certain number of employees draw their means of subsistence ; ;
and the doctrine of original sin is compounded of injustice .
Because God is what He is , the laws of the universe , material and spiritual , are what they are .
From that time to this my religious concern is that I might give effective help to the bringing in of God's kingdom on earth .
Deity and Law are one and inseparable .
I asked one day what he was doing .
In seeking for such meaning and purpose , Albert Schweitzer seized upon the concept of the `` sacredness of life '' .
Such is the field for exercising our reverence .
Persons , whether white , black , brown or yellow , are a concern of God .
One such is Abraham Meyer , the writer of a recent book , Speaking Of Man .
Read , for instance , in Malcolm MacDonald's Borneo People of Segura and her wise father Tomonggong Koh , and her final adjustment to encroaching civilization .
Each faded out into the unexplored areas of the future .
On the contrary it is my duty to make my own decision as between the two '' .
These lives are in themselves outside of the moral order and are unburdened with moral responsibility .
Let us now give some thought to the soul .
If obeyed , the law brings order and satisfaction .
Said he , `` It teaches me to wonder '' .
In the face of the unfolding universe , our ultimate attitude is that of wonder .
As we observe moral law and physical law they appear as being inevitable .
At least I had been unable to lay hold on the experience of conversion .
To obey the moral law is just ordinary common sense , applied to a neglected field .
Some of these thoughts -- not all of them -- have taken organized form in later years .
I did not feel it presumptuous to expect that the Creator would be at least as just as the most righteous of His creatures ; ;
My own experience has followed simpler lines .
This group in Park Place Church was made up of the earnest few .
I found myself becoming one of that group of people who , in Carlyle's words , `` are forever gazing into their own navels , anxiously asking ' Am I right , am I wrong ' '' ? ?
His Ethics defines `` possessions as the property of the community , of which the individual is sovereign steward .
It is as if we , in our center of human observation , from time to time penetrate more deeply into the unknown .
In the rhyming catechism this doctrine is worded thus : `` In Adam's fall We sin-ned all '' .
Gone are the days when , in the nineteenth century , scientists thought that they were close to the attainment of complete knowledge of the physical universe .
We can conceive of no alternatives .
I bethought me of the Lord's Prayer , and these words came to mind : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
It is endless .
Above all read in Jens Bjerre's The Last Cannibal Show the old man of the Wailbri tribe ( not cannibals ) in central Australia gave to the white man his choicest possession , while the tears streamed down his face .
Neither the engineer nor the ordinary citizen feels any self-consciousness in obeying the laws of matter and energy , nor can he achieve a sense of self-righteousness in such obedience .
or to let the ethical be superseded by the purposive .
There is , of course , the doctrine of original sin , which asserts that each of us as individuals partakes of the guilt of our first ancestor .
Each will decide on his own course somewhere between these two extreme cases according to the sense of responsibility which is determined for him by the particular circumstances of his own life .
In his book Civilization And Ethics Albert Schweitzer faces the moral problems which arise when moral law is recognized in business life , for example .
This doctrine was repugnant to my moral sense .
This truth that the moral law is natural has other important corollaries .
Schweitzer seems , in fact , to acquire for himself a burden of sin , not bequeathed by Adam , but accumulated in the inevitable judgments which life requires of him as between greater and lesser responsibilities .
It is most important that we recognize the law of love as being unbreakable in all personal relationships , whether individually , socially or as between whole nations of people .
The Australian aborigine is the conventional exemplar of degraded humanity ; ;
Wonder grows .
Then I asked , `` What does that teach you '' ? ?
Perhaps it should have .
There was one further step in my religious progress .
Respect for personality is a privilege and a duty for us as brothers .
He is uncompromising in assigning guilt to the man who finds it necessary to inflict or permit injury to one individual or group for the sake of a larger good .
Their basis seems deeper than mere authority .
With the knowledge that the kingdom comes by obedience to the moral law in our relations with all people , we have a firm intellectual grasp on both the means and the ends of our lives .
The spirit of this group was that we were -- and are -- living in a world doomed to eternal punishment , but that God through Jesus Christ has provided a way of escape for those who confess their sins and accept salvation .
The subject of immortality brings to mind a vivid incident which took place in 1929 at Montreux in Switzerland .
The basic difficulty , I suppose , was in my ultimate inability to feel a burden of sin from which I sought relief .
I came under the spell of a younger group in the church led by the pastor's older son .
He told me that he had a big newt and a little newt and that he was transplanting a big eye of the big newt onto the little newt and a little eye of the little newt onto the big newt .
Besides Church and Sunday School I went to out-of-door meetings on the sidewalk at the church door .
Finally , after years , I gave up .
They have remained on the opened page of my mind in all the years which since have passed .
I was drawn deeper and deeper into these concerns and responsibilities .
As our radius of penetration , R , increases , the area of new knowledge increases by Af , and the total of human knowledge becomes measured in terms of Af .
There is indeed a moral responsibility on man himself , for his own soul's sake , to respect lower life and to avoid the infliction of suffering , but this viewpoint Schweitzer rejects .
As to our action , let us align ourselves with the purpose expressed by Jesus in the Lord's Prayer : `` Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done , on earth as it is in heaven '' .
Try as I might to confess my sins and accept salvation , no answer came to me from heaven .