Anne had a way with words .
I won't be guilty of trying to run his life '' .
`` All right .
He whistled as he locked the office and grinned as he got on the elevator .
His eyebrow went up in amusement at his soul-searching panic .
She said what she meant and let it be .
Your fur has been rubbed the wrong way and you show it .
Your acceptance will come through '' .
`` In a way , yes .
David's interests .
It isn't like you .
That you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` Of course David has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ? ?
Good solid B average with a sprinkling of A's in math and science .
This was the letter which would or would not enroll his son , David , in Hanford .
Need any help '' ? ?
`` Why not let him take it , Cady ? ?
Cady looked at Tom , who had taken him up and down for fifteen years .
`` And he wasn't really elected treasurer of the science club .
But I refuse to be brutally honest and mention Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' .
`` Board meeting tonight , Cady '' ? ?
`` Let's go into the library .
Besides , Cady Partlow knew he wasn't the old-grad-type .
Of course you can have it '' .
Cady Partlow's head came up like that of the proverbial fire horse .
`` But he plays bass with Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' ! !
He turned back to the typewriter with a little more confidence .
`` You mean that rock-and-roll combo ? ?
David grinned .
Weight , 160 .
That was when half the school was down with flu '' .
`` That's a fact , Mr. Partlow .
There , that did it .
He told Hanford his son had participated in numerous high-school activities .
Cady trailed her with the coffee cups and settled into his favorite chair in the comfortable book-lined room .
`` Dave has qualities of leadership .
He hasn't used it now for several years .
You can't run a war with ninety-nine generals and one private '' ! !
David had the same gray eyes , high cheekbones , dark hair and a certain rugged ugliness .
You want him to be a leader of men , like you '' .
When I went to college they begged you to come .
What a production to make of a letter commending your own son ! !
`` No .
After all , his wife had written most of his letters for him in those first lean days of Partlow Products .
His son who had never held an office in any organization in the eighteen years of his life .
They want a letter from me on his motives , interests and leadership .
`` And what would you say he wants to do ? ?
Cady , deep in thought , neither heard nor answered .
Pete's son was rejected .
`` Girls , my dear parent , are here to stay ! !
Gone back for reunions .
`` In response to your letter , I can in good conscience recommend my son , David , in the field of leadership '' .
Hanford realized he had enrolled his son four years ago .
So sorry .
Cady appeared slightly mollified .
Look at Pete Alcorn , who hadn't missed a Hanford ball game in fifteen years .
`` Maybe I am padding it a bit , Anne '' , he said .
`` I'm sorry , Dave .
Here's what I wrote '' .
He told Hanford his son wanted to go into the field of electronics .
`` Oh '' , said Mr. Partlow , `` that's fine , Tom .
Anne waited until the door had slammed and picked up the coffeepot .
For once Cady Partlow wished Anne would yell at him so he could yell back .
Anne had it .
Work to do '' .
Give him time '' .
He liked looking at Anne .
It wouldn't help anyway .
Tom slid open the door to the lobby .
`` A team is a team '' , insisted Cady .
This was it .
`` I didn't know I looked so dilapidated '' ! !
Cady snapped the Venetian blind shut and slammed himself down before the typewriter , rolled in a fresh sheet , and gave his letter the same savage attention he bestowed on a salesman who needed to have the bucket taken off his thick head .
They had all turned down his son .
`` And the swimming team .
`` But you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good college .
All your wishful thinking won't change that .
But then , he hadn't studied very hard .
Cady put the well-worn chip back on his shoulder .
Can you really say his motivation for college is electronics '' ? ?
He finished with a flurry of good wishes to Hanford College and signed the letter .
Don't worry , Cady , he'll be back in the Beethoven fold by next year '' .
Limited interests .
Just missed the first '' .
So sorry .
He didn't have to be told his son looked like him .
But he had been busy building a business , being a big man in his own town just as he had been a big man at Hanford , Class of 1935 .
He wondered if he had played it wrong .
Anne said it wasn't surprising because Charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided .
He has to have leadership as well as grades '' .
Real bright along those lines , you might say .
He shoved the unsealed letter into his coat pocket .
How do you tell a college like Hanford that your son has a vast potential , that he will find himself ? ?
Dave kissed her lightly .
No clear motivation .
He hadn't told anyone , but he , too , had applied to five colleges for David .
From those navy-blue eyes she saw things as clearly and honestly as David did .
He's president of the rocket club here , you know .
`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was only acting president of the student forum for a few days .
He never will , Cady .
`` Music ! !
`` The fact remains he was treasurer '' .
`` I don't think you've been quite honest , Cady .
Getting elected president of the student body took a lot of time and politicking .
`` No , I begged off .
Hanford College hasn't decided on Dave's application yet .
`` Yes , he's just there .
He looks a little bit frayed '' .
A woman had it or she didn't .
Most people did .
Be our guest ! !
Cady Partlow lit his pipe with no comfort .
He could take the advice or leave it .
Those aren't his interests now '' .
Yet the whole of Anne was something she had never learned in any college .
I know it is midweek , but it's only eight days before commencement .
Dave shrugged on his sports coat and picked up the car keys .
Cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped off the curb on his heel .
He hasn't been to a symphony concert all season '' .
Half of it was natural , half was Smith College .
`` I can hardly say the same about you , Dave '' ! !
Mr. Partlow could still feel a cold sweat on his slightly gray temples as he remembered what a near thing chemistry had been for him at Hanford .
`` Can I have the car , Dad '' ? ?
No , Cady , he made second team .
Hanford College , Little Ivy League , had no room for football players with low grades .
Cady didn't come unglued easily , but this had not been a day of glad tidings .
So sorry .
Anne picked up the towel she was hemming for the hospital guild .
Already he could feel Anne's questioning eyes .
He likes to play bass because he doesn't have to solo .
Let's forget the rules '' .
`` Yes '' , she said quietly .
`` Anything else '' ? ?
But due to the many applicants on file , would he co-operate and write a personal letter giving them his son's motivation , interests and his qualifications for leadership ? ?
Geology , You and Dave used his rock collection for the bottom of the fishpond six years ago ! !
Maybe he should have kept in touch .
She always could sense the shag end of a woolly day .
`` Don't worry about it , Dave .
Height , 6' .
`` Don't be too sure , Dad .
`` Hear anything from Hanford yet , Dad '' ? ?
`` Just say he likes swimming , tennis , chess and music '' .
`` It's Dave who is applying to Hanford College .
Not the kind of leadership you mean , working with lots of people .
`` Just because your father tried to make a banker out of you , you've leaned over backward to keep your hands off .
He's -- he's just there , that's all '' .
Anne folded the worrisome document .
Imagine his son being that good in science ! !
His chief motivation for enrolling at Hanford is the desire to '' --
`` Going to State '' ? ?
You do seem somewhat tattered '' .
As he drove home through the thinning traffic , Cady felt the unease growing .
`` You look like you just heard a real gasser , Mr. Partlow '' .
Cady looked at his own son's scholastic record with pride .
Get my old man to bed early .
He got a science scholarship to Yale '' .
Remember what you used to say in the Army ? ?
He doesn't like to rise and shine .
Anne smiled .
Anne laughed and Cady felt the tension loosen its grip on the back of his neck .
Better show it to Anne and see if he had omitted anything .
He was mad about stars at the age of nine .
`` I was just thinking how things have changed .
He put down his pipe and started to type .
Just give him time , give him a chance .
Health , excellent .
He liked her blond hair and the sprinkle of freckles across her nose .
Always messing around with science stuff .
He keeps the beat going .
He just took over the week Bill Daley was in the state basketball play-off '' .
Even in that he never solos like Jack on guitar or Rich on sax .
Charles Burke got turned down by Dartmouth and he is a straight-A student '' .
Then he met the grave eyes of his wife , Anne , from the photograph next to David's .
He just hasn't developed them yet .
He paced to the window and looked at the city he had helped to build .
It's our pleasure ! !
Tax worries , production worries , personnel worries , and the letter from Hanford College , his own alma mater , a real snapper .
The car ? ?
`` But he was president '' .
Cady stuck his jaw out .
Astronomy .
Just fine '' .
Mr. Partlow banged his fist on the keyboard , ruining the letter .
`` What do you suggest '' ? ?
He suddenly realized when he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him .
He stopped and looked at the picture of his son , the picture on his desk which had changed with the years from a laughing baby to a candidate for Hanford College .
He belonged to a social club , a civic group , little theater , swimming team , and had been president of the student forum as well as treasurer of the science club .
Cady begged the question .
But tonight his drink tasted like branch water and even his favorite meal of steak and tossed salad gave no surcease from the growing weight of the letter in his pocket .
How do you tell a college president that your son doesn't know what he wants to do ? ?
His son who did not know whether he wanted to be doctor , lawyer , merchant or chief .
`` Wrong word , darling .
Nor did looking at Anne ease the tension as it usually did .
But subconsciously you've wanted him to conform to your mold .
Why don't you ask him '' ? ?
Cady walked the block to the mailbox , almost ashamed of himself for arguing with Anne .
Cady handed her the letter , drank his coffee and waited with what he suddenly realized was belligerence .
Carefully he put down his steak knife and said loudly , `` Mr. Chairman '' ! !
Dave ate two pieces of pie as he did everything else , slowly , methodically and with interest .
`` I have talked to him , but you know I've never tried to push him into any profession .
`` His interests range from astronomy and geology to electronics , tennis and swimming .
`` Did you know he is advertising his ham-radio equipment for sale this weekend ? ?
My John applied to six colleges before he got in '' .
Just what '' ? ?
Now you have to be well rounded , firm in motivation and pre-packed with knowledge '' ! !
Weakness in leadership .
Yes , the boy's credentials were in order -- scholastic transcript , character references , picture , health record , successful college boards .
She never got on his back .