How much study is required ? ?
Animals may be present at the site or provide hunting in nearby areas .
A visit to the site by a group of several persons can usually bring out new ideas or verify opinions most helpful to the planning study of any recreation area .
Notice should be taken of unusual rock formations , deposits , or shapes of the earth's crust in your region .
An area sheltered from strong winds may be highly desirable for recreation use .
-- The existing plant growth calls for thorough checking .
It is too easy for the inexperienced person to make a quick judgment of a few values of the area and base a decision on these alone .
For instance , a site adjoining other publicly owned lands , such as a national forest or a public road , may be desirable , whereas a site next to an industrial plant might not .
The direction , velocity , and season of these winds should be noted as to just how they will affect the recreation use and your maintenance and operation of the area .
The new editions of topographic maps being made by the federal government are excellent for orienting yourself to the natural features of the site .
Clams , crabs , and other marine life may add interest at coastal areas .
An area may have been partially logged and requires removal of stumps or clean-up .
The amount of water frontage , the quantity and quality of the water , and the recreation afforded by it are important .
Nearly level areas are required for parking areas , beaches , camp areas , ballfields , etcetera .
Topography
However , a narrow strip may be very practical for small developments , or to provide additional stream frontage for a fisherman's trail , or include scenic strips within the park unit .
The quantity and quality of water sources is often a big factor in site selection .
Areas should be large enough to include the attractions , have ample space for the use of facilities needed , and have room around the edges to protect the values of the area from encroachment by private developments .
Although the site may not contain the features themselves , there are often opportunities to include them as additional interest to the site .
Sometimes , you have a choice of exposure for sites where the topography or trees of the area will provide afternoon shade , morning sun , or whatever may be most desirable for the use intended .
-- Topography is very important .
You need answers to four important questions .
The utilities available nearby may provide a savings in the cost of extending electricity or water to the site .
In looking for the best sites available that meet the requirements , you need information to compare the site with others .
Most counties also have maps available from the county engineer showing roads and other features and from the assessor's office showing ownerships of land .
An old shipwreck , a high dam , an old covered bridge , a place to find agates or other semi-precious stones or a place to pan gold , etcetera may be of interest .
Most recreation work calls for a good deal of pre-planning .
A site may be a rundown slum or a desolate piece of desert in appearance today but have excellent potentials for the future with a little development or water .
-- In addition to its recreation interests , water is needed for drinking , sanitation , and irrigation .
This is particularly true in site selection .
Some areas may provide archeological values such as ancient Indian village sites or hunting areas , caves , artifacts , etcetera .
Some shrubs may be of good landscaping value , other areas of brush may need to be cleared .
Check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests already existing at the site .
Figure the cost of providing water to the use areas .
Shape of the area is also related to the use attractions and needs of the development .
A group of native trees or plants which are outstanding in a particular county can be featured at the site .
The historical sign tells its story , but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the original historical items or places themselves which still have the character of the period covered .
Determine how much topography limits useful area or what the costs of earth moving or grading might be .
This is true because of savings in utility lines and the fact that your buildings have a useful radius equal in all directions .
Improvements
Many things need to be checked :
If the site is on a reservoir , the level of the water at various seasons as it affects recreation should be studied .
A restricted frontage may be too crowded an area for public use .
This gives you a better opportunity to get the feel of the climate conditions , the exposure to the sun and wind , the water interests , etcetera , which vary greatly with the seasons .
Usually there are more factors to good site planning than first impressions .
This , of course , depends on the character of the site itself , the previous experience of the investigator , and the number of factors needed to arrive at a good decision .
What are the existing recreation features ? ?
Inspect the site in the field during the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for recreation .
Other natural features which can be of high interest are the forests , canyons , mountains , deserts , seacoast , beaches , sand dunes , waterfalls , springs , etcetera with which the area is blessed .
Exposure
The same is true of areas which at first look good because of a few existing recreation features but may actually be poor areas to develop for general public use .
The site may be on one of the major flyways of migratory birds or have its own resident bird life .
Each area has its own historical interests with which much can be done .
The quantity of water flow may be critical ; ;
This follows naturally since frontage on an ocean , stream , or lake provides scenic values and opportunities for the very popular recreation activities of bathing , fishing , boating , and other water sports .
a stream or pond which is attractive in the springtime may become stagnant or dry in late summer .
A large picnic area or camping development is most efficient in shape as a square or rectangle several hundred feet in width in preference to a long narrow area less than one hundred feet wide .
One of the most desirable features for a park are beautiful views or scenery .
A site may also be attractive just through the beauty of its trees and shrubs .
The fish , animals , and birds which may be found at the site are another interest .
you must have a list of requirements on where , how many , and what type sites are needed .
Adjoining areas
Note extent of these interests and how available they will be for the public to enjoy .
An area may be too small for the needs of the project .
Just as the national and state parks place emphasis on features which are of national or state significance , counties should seek out these features which are distinctive of their area .
With such a program you can make constructive selections of the best sites available .
Some recreation features , such as scenic values and water interest , also have greater overall value than other interests .
These are a great aid for planning use back at the office .
Begin the examination of a site with a good map and aerial photos if possible .
How useful will it be to the public ? ?
A site which overlooks a harbor or river may offer interest in the activities of boating traffic .
Park visitors are always eager to learn more about the area they are in .
These are becoming more and more available through the work of counties and other government agencies .
These are inexpensive and available from the U. S. Geological Society , Washington 25 , D. C. .
A body of water is usually the center of interest at parks which attract the greatest picnic and camping use .
You must know before you start what the needs and objectives of your organization are ; ;
In recent years many counties and the U. S. Forest Service have taken aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning use .
It also cools the air in summer and nourishes the trees and wild life .
Look at the trees as to size and interest , the amount of shade they provide , how healthy they are , the problems of maintenance , fire hazards , wind throw , etcetera .
Those which tell a story of the earth's formation in each area can add geological interest to the recreation sites .
-- How much will wind , rain , sun , and temperature affect the use ? ?
-- The values of the site may be affected by the appearance of the adjoining lands , ownership and use of the land , and the utilities available there .
The area may provide good springs or opportunities for a well or be near to municipal water lines .
An area on the coast may have relaxing views of the surf rolling in on a beach .
However , there is also much to be gained by making use of the abilities of the local people who are available and interested in recreation .
It may be distant views of a valley or the mountains or natural features such as a small lake , colorful rock formations , or unusual trees .
-- The size of the area alone can be a determining factor .
Plants
How well can the site be developed ? ?
Water
Other factors , such as water temperature , depth of water , the fish life it supports , wave action , flooding , etcetera , will affect its recreation value .
Is this site available ? ?
The route to the park may lead people past them or display views of them .
How well can the site be developed ? ?
Check the quality of the water .
A stream which has all of its watershed within a national forest or other lands under good conservation practices is less likely to be affected by pollution than one passing through unrestricted logging or past an industrial area .
-- Some areas may already have been improved and contain buildings , roads , utilities , cleared land , etcetera which may raise the cost of the site .
Fishing interest calls for a check of the species found , quantity and size , the season they are available , and the stocking program of the fish commission .
The extent and location of open areas is noted .
Look at the physical features of the land to determine how desirable it is for use , what can be done to correct the faults , and what it will cost to make the area meet your needs in comparison to other sites .
Most park planners look to water frontage for basic park areas .
size and shape
For site planning work , it is best to have a qualified and experienced park planner to carry through the study .
County judges , commissioners , engineers , assessors , and others who have lived in the area for a long time may have valuable knowledge regarding the site or opinions to offer from their varied professional experiences .
Frontage on a body of clear , clean water will be vastly different from the same amount of frontage on polluted water .
It is usually helpful to make a sketch map in the field , showing the size and location of the features of interest and to take photographs at the site .
Water interest is one of the most valuable factors you can find for a recreation site .
Check the elevation of the ground , degree and direction of slopes , drainage , rock outcrops , topsoil types and quality , as well as subsoil .
Naturally , a park site with scenic views , a good lake , trees , and sand dunes , will attract more people than a nearby area with only trees and dunes .
Lack of rainfall and extreme temperatures may call for the development of shade and irrigation of a site to make it useable .
Quality is vitally important .
Acreage in excess of the minimum is good practice as recreation areas are never too large for the future and it is often more economical to operate one large area than several small ones .