Mostly , she stayed in bed .
Those ten days were like no others that Blanche had known .
What for ? ?
Without taking off his coat , he sat in the blue chair which still faced the closed bedroom door .
`` I think so .
I'm on my way to see the Jacobs woman '' .
The bed was empty now .
Who ? ?
She might have been talking to some of her friends about her husband if they've been having any trouble '' .
As a result , he never looked for it .
Men , she reflected , even men like Stanley , are unpredictable .
He knew he would never see it again .
On that first day , Blanche literally thought she was going to die , or , at the very least , go out of her mind .
But he hadn't understood .
Later , she apologized for the long scratch across his face , tried to explain she couldn't help herself , that the panic arose in her unwanted .
Indeed , there was a woman who , unasked , had already given him love .
He could think of no answer .
If anyone had asked her , she would have described herself only as nervous and worried .
`` Gilborn says he was in his office all day with her yesterday .
She tried to think of his unpredictable actions in the eleven years she had known him and discovered they weren't so many after all .
`` Yeah .
He rose from the chair , took off his coat .
He hadn't come back for over two .
`` Gilborn's secretary ? ?
And now she was feeling sick , both from concern about Stanley and hunger .
Who ? ?
`` I don't think anything .
Gilborn remembered Conrad's exact words .
There were mornings when Stanley came in late , afternoons when he left early , days when he didn't come in at all .
`` Right .
She was his goal , she was his reason .
She was thirty-one years old then .
He had lived all his life waiting for her .
When Kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life .
Kitti would lie in it no more .
For Blanche , Kitti's death was a source of guilty , but nonetheless soaring , happy hope .
`` Not since last night .
Stanley went along in life , she knew , convinced that he deserved the love and faith of no woman .
Kitti had come along to justify everything .
I'd like to make sure .
Where there is a victim , there is a killer .
The dentist last night , for instance .
Try talking to some of the fellows he works with , friends , anyone .
At last , sitting there , in the familiar surroundings , the truth began to sink in .
Also , it's just possible she might know something about Mrs. Gilborn '' .
The walk ended , inevitably , right in front of his hotel building .
He stopped automatically at the street corners , waiting for the traffic lights to change , unheeding of other people , his coat open and flapping .
He had taken her upstairs to say good night .
Yet it wasn't so .
She had invited him in for coffee .
Gilborn passed by him without seeing him .
Unquestionably , Blanche loved Stanley .
`` Then again he might not '' .
And then , unexpectedly , Stanley made his announcement .
I'm telling you , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to , they'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off '' .
Of himself .
It was in the kitchen , as she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , that he had grabbed for her .
He knew Conrad had told him the truth .
From behind , he had put his arms on her shoulders , turned her around , and pressed her to him , so close she couldn't breathe .
At the end of the half-hour , racking his brains , thinking over and over again of Kitti , her friends , her past , he left the bedroom .
You might try looking into his wife too .
Gilborn stood there for a long time .
Try to find out how happy he is with his wife , whether he plays around with women .
Blanche knew all this because the door to Stanley's office was open and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said .
She didn't tell anyone , even her mother , what was wrong .
And so he walked , aimless again .
On the morning of Stanley's return , however , her strength left her .
She could always predict what Stanley was going to do , ever since she first met him .
The figures on the worksheet paper in front of her were jumping and waving around so badly it was all she could do to make them out clearly enough to copy them with the typewriter .
`` Remember to tell that to the next corpse you meet '' .
Stanley really was quite predictable .
As he walked , he tried to think .
Who ? ?
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
He would lie in it no more .
It wasn't so because it couldn't be so .
Who ? ?
He looked at his watch .
It was nothing that he said or did , but it seemed so natural to her that she should be working for him , looking forward to his eventual proposal .
It was too unprecedented .
He wondered how long it would be before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black .
She thought it was sometime during the second week she worked for Stanley .
On Blanche Jacobs , Kitti Gilborn's death had a quite different effect .
The morning he walked in to announce to her , blushing , that he was married .
For thirty minutes , Stanley Gilborn stood there .
It might have been easier for her if Kitti Walker hadn't been everything that Blanche was not .
`` It sure as hell doesn't look like it , does it ? ?
He looked at the bed unblinkingly .
It was so .
For fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without plan , without reason .
She thought she was going to die .
Gilborn put on his coat again .
He hadn't .
The police were no longer there .
Mainly of what Conrad had tried to make him believe .
I'll see you later '' .
Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain in that same bed with Who ? ?
It was a cold , windy day , the day after Kitti's death , but Stanley Gilborn paid no attention to the blustery October wind .
Conrad's words had intellectual meaning for him only .
She wanted to be with him , to give him the comfort and companionship she knew he needed .
a woman who was willing to give him love , faith , and anything else a woman could give a husband .
He crossed the lobby and rode up in the elevator lost in his own thoughts .
She had skipped her lunch hour in the fear that he might call while she was out .
Why hadn't he called ? ?
For exactly one week , she was able to continue in this manner .
Dinner and the movies had been fine .
The doorman began to nod his head automatically , then remembered who Gilborn was , what had happened to him the night before .
There was no reason for her to marry someone like Stanley Gilborn , there was no need for her to marry Stanley .
In the street , walking as quickly as he could , Stanley Gilborn was a lone figure .
Not really .
That night the two of them left for a week's honeymoon in Acapulco .
That was one of the things she liked about Stanley .
The bed still showed signs of where Kitti had lain .
When he left , she knew she would never see him again .
Speak to him again anyway .
For Blanche , it was only a matter of time before Stanley would propose .
She had assumed before then that one day he would ask her to marry him .
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
Quickly , he went into the bedroom .
He could not consider it now .
Stanley had filled out the return and because , when he was finished , it was close to the lunch hour , he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept .
Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity .
Of Kitti .
He simply walked , not noticing where he was , not caring .
Except that Kitti wasn't there .
But he still wanted to know why .
`` What a stinking world '' , Rourke said .
She wondered whether Stanley would call .
Without warning , without giving her a chance to prepare for it .
Then , six weeks after the day Kitti first came into the office , Stanley announced he and Kitti were married .
They made sense and yet they didn't .
`` I know '' .
Kitti was thirty years younger than Stanley , taller than Stanley , prettier than Stanley had any right to hope for , much less expect .
Conrad hung up and sat on the small telephone-booth bench , massaging his right leg .
`` Black is Gilborn's best friend '' .
Except for that one morning .
It was ten minutes before eleven .
She refused to have a doctor , insisting there was nothing a doctor could do for her .
The enormity of what Conrad had told him made it impossible for Gilborn to accept , with any degree of realism , the actuality of it .
`` Will you be coming back soon '' ? ?
Thirty years' experience let him know , even at this early stage , that Black was his man .
In Blanche's defense , it must be said she was unaware of the newborn hope .
He looked at Gilborn with undisguised curiosity .
I didn't think there was any reason to '' .
Two hours of watching his serenely happy face , listening to his soft humming as he bent over his penciled figures , and Blanche had to leave .
Somehow , Blanche managed to cover the stunned surprise and offer her congratulations .
`` Maybe there isn't .
Blanche couldn't remember when she had first arrived at this conclusion .
She stayed away for ten days .
It was a succession of picture-images passing through his mind : the same ones , different ones , in no apparent sequence , in no logical succession .
After that day , Blanche still didn't know exactly what had happened .
`` Aren't you ever going to go home '' ? ?
After leaving Conrad , Gilborn had no destination .
Kitti had come into the office , on somebody's recommendation , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return .
But one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; ;
But Blanche had been able to maintain a serene and assured composure in the face of her widowed mother's continued carping , had been able to resist her urgings to date anyone who offered the slightest possibility of matrimony .
In the apartment itself , all was still .
She was the sun , he the closest planet orbiting around her , the rest of the world existing and visible yet removed .
`` You think Black's the one we're looking for '' ? ?
Where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , there is a right-hand one , he remembered from his school days .
Someone had taken her away from him .
He felt no anger towards Kitti , no sense that she had betrayed him .
She was all he had , everything he had , everything he wanted .
He wasn't like so many other men .
Stanley wasn't like that .
Before leaving , he took one last , lingering look at the apartment .
Kitti could have married a score of men .
Conrad interrupted .
While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
There was nothing coherent about his thinking .
There was no evidence that anything was different than it had been .
I just don't want to go off half-cocked before picking up Black , that's all '' .
Her mother was already considerably concerned over her daughter's future .
Emotionally , they penetrated him not at all .
You don't think Gilborn is the -- '' ? ?
It was to be expected that Stanley would be shy , slow in taking such a momentous step .
Stanley had gone out , saying he would be back in an hour .
Blanche knew something must be causing Stanley's new , strange behavior but she never once connected it with Kitti Walker .
I think he might be '' , Conrad said grimly .
Who ? ?