Moscow Novosti article in Russian , datelined London :
Evidently the war drum beating and hysteria so painstakingly being stirred up in the West have been planned long in advance .
A quarter of a century has gone by since this bevy of walking dreams sashayed up and down the staircases of the old New Amsterdam Theater , N.Y. .
The present attempts of the politicians to contaminate ordinary Britons shows that this British common sense is unwilling to pull somebody else's chestnuts out of the fire by new military adventures '' .
-- And proposals for a whole series of lesser candidate-picking conventions in the state's 38 new Congressional districts .
But the rest of the GOP gubernatorial aspirants don't worry him very much .
Carvey considers that former Vice President Nixon would be Brown's most formidable foe , with ex-Gov. Knight a close second .
The Soviet Union will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over Berlin , and neither will its Warsaw Pact allies .
When founded by Franklin the Gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually contained more and more fiction , poetry , and literary essays .
`` Sure , we met a barrel of rich men but it's hard to find the real thing when you're young , beautiful and the toast of two continents '' `` Remember Fanny Brice promised my mother she would look after me on the road '' ? ?
Whenever some Washington circles were really ready for talks to eliminate friction they have always succumbed to pressure from the war clique in the Pentagon and in Bonn .
President Kennedy's latest warning to the Communist world that the United States will build up its military strength to meet any challenge in Berlin or elsewhere was , somewhat surprisingly , reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the Iron Curtain .
-- Arrangements for a statewide pre-primary endorsing convention in Fresno next Jan. 26-28 .
Over 4 million shares were sold , the highest figures since early June .
Exclaimed Vera Forbes Adams , batting lovely big eyes behind glitter rimmed glasses .
They seem darned proud of it .
Naturally , the statewide races will provide the major test for the expanding council .
And they're confident that the GOP , currently assailed by dissensions within the ranks , will be impressed by the purring power beneath the hood of this grassroots-fueled machine .
They accuse their enemies of precisely the crimes of which they themselves are most guilty .
Contrarily , Republican `` volunteers '' go their separate ways , and thus far have given no indication that they'd be willing to join forces under a single directorate , except in the most loose-knit fashion .
Much of its strength stems from the comfortable knowledge that every `` volunteer '' Democratic organization of any consequence belongs to the Aj .
He's approached his Democratic duties in hard-nosed engineering fashion .
Out of this session may come : 1
2
But Curtis poured over $1 million into it and in time it again became one of the most popular weeklies of the country .
)
`` Former Vice President Nixon came out in support of President Kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race .
But it will include 200-odd officeholders , organization leaders and `` interested party people '' .
Then the Communese reply came back from many mouthpieces with striking consistency .
`` The American press clamored for many days promising President Kennedy would reply to the most vital domestic and foreign problems confronting the United States .
I was anxious to hear about those dazzling days on the Great White Way .
The country was now full of Gazettes and Samuel C. Atkinson and Charles Alexander , who had just taken over Franklin's old paper , desired a more distinctive name .
At least , I have found it so .
In his CDC work , Carvey has the close-in support and advice of one of California's shrewdest political strategists : former Democratic National Committeeman Paul Ziffren , who backed him over a Northland candidate espoused by Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk .
`` The U.S. President has shown once again that the United States needs the fanning of the West Berlin crisis to justify the armaments race .
Biggest organizational problem , he adds , is setting up CDC units in rock-ribbed Democratic territory .
State Sen. Dick Richards will keynote ; ;
Like most Democratic spokesmen , Carvey predicts 1962 will be a tremendously `` partisan year '' .
For some compulsive reason which would have fascinated Dr. Freud , Communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves .
Their conversation and dinner passed in a warm and friendly atmosphere '' .
It is a short course in Communese .
But watching Mrs. Cyril Ring , Berniece Dalton Janssen , Mrs. Robert Jarvis , Mrs. Walter Adams order low-calorie seafood , no bread , I could see the Ziegfeld Girls of 1920 were determined to be glamorous grandmothers of 1961 .
Aug. 4 , 1821 , nearly a century after Benjamin Franklin founded the Pennsylvania Gazette -- a century during which it had undergone several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication -- this paper made its first appearance as the Saturday Evening Post .
The crisis was artificially stirred up by the Kremlin ( Wall Street ) and the Red Army ( Pentagon ) egged on by the West Germans ( East Germans ) .
Kennedy knows the West will not wage war for West Berlin , neither conventional nor nuclear , and negotiations will come as certainly as the peace treaty .
The West Berlin crisis is being played up artificially because it is needed by the United States to justify its arms drive '' .
Little more than a fine old name , valuable principally because of the Franklin tradition , the Saturday Evening Post was slow to revive .
( Significantly , bitter echoes of the 1960 power struggle that saw Mosk moving into the national committee post over Ziffren are still audible in party circles .
Where only one club existed before , he says , two will flourish henceforth .
Shunted aside by the rampant organizers for John F. Kennedy last year , who relegated it to a somewhat subordinate role in the Presidential campaign , the CDC plainly intends to provide the party's campaign muscle in 1962 .
`` Remember the night Will Rogers filled a tooth for me between numbers '' ? ?
Paradoxically the council is weakest in areas that register 4- and 5-to-1 in the party's favor , strongest where Democrats and Republicans compete on a fairly even basis .
Well , dear listeners , despite all the shouting , there will be no war over West Berlin '' .
4
This bodes heated contests in several districts where claims have already been staked out by Democratic hopefuls who don't see eye-to-eye with the Aj .
The reason was to speed up domestic production in the USSR , which Khrushchev promised upon grabbing power , and try to end the permanent recession in Russian living standards .
Carvey believes that reapportionment , which left many Democratic clubs split by these new district boundaries , actually will increase CDC membership .
`` A better position for negotiations is the real point of this speech .
East Berlin ( Communist ) radio in German to Germany :
And now , for Communist listeners and readers :
As was to be expected Kennedy's latest speech was greeted with enthusiasm by revenge-seeking circles in Bonn , where officials of the West German government praised it '' .
The West has no intention of attacking Russia .
In the middle of the century , with a circulation of 90,000 , the Post was one of the most popular weeklies in the country .
In Kennedy's speech are cross currents , sensible ones and senseless ones , reflecting the great struggle of opinions between the President's advisers and the political and economic forces behind them .
He also demanded that Kennedy take additional measures to increase international tension : specifically to crush the Cuban revolution , resume nuclear testing , resist more vigorously admission of China to its lawful seat in the United Nations , and postpone non-military programs at home '' .
`` Billie was really beautiful '' ! !
)
The `` West Berlin '' crisis is really an East Berlin crisis .
`` Remember the French railroad baron who was going to take me floating down the Nile '' ? ?
It works with English , Russian , German , Hungarian or almost any other foreign tongue .
TASS from Moscow in English to Europe :
But during the second half of the century its fortunes reached a low point and when in 1897 Cyrus H. K. Curtis purchased it -- `` paper , type , and all '' -- for $1,000 it was a 16-page weekly filled with unsigned fiction and initialed miscellany , and with only some 2,000 subscribers .
`` President Kennedy once again interpreted the Soviet proposals , to sign a peace treaty with Germany as a threat , as part of the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism .
`` Chairman Khrushchev received the U.S. President's disarmament adviser , John McCloy .
Their meeting at San Francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the California Democratic Council directorate .
California Democrats this weekend will take the wraps off a 1962 model statewide campaign vehicle which they have been quietly assembling in a thousand district headquarters , party clubrooms and workers' backyards .
All this remembering took place the other night when I had supper with the Ziegfeld Girls at the Beverly Hills Club .
Moscow TASS in Russian datelined Sochi :
Hence the attention they're lavishing on the Aj .
Now listen closely :
His advisers in the Politburo ( White House ) are engaged in a great struggle of opinions , so he is not always consistent .
In fact , the world heard nothing but sabre-rattling , the same exercises which proved futile for the predecessors of the current President .
At the head of the CDC is an unorthodox , 39-year-old amateur politico , Thomas B. Carvey Jr. , whose normal profession is helping develop Hughes Aircraft's moon missiles .
-- Plans for a dramatic , broad-scale party rally in Los Angeles next December that would enlist top-drawer Democrats from all over the country .
note : We've just received an announcement of the 54th Assembly district post-reapportionment organizing convention Wednesday night in South Pasadena's War Memorial Bldg. , which graphically illustrates the CDC's broad appeal .
If there were no West Berlin problem , imperialist quarters would have invented an excuse for stepping up the armaments race to try to solve the internal and external problems besetting the United States and its NATO partners .
The Soviet news agency TASS datelined from New York in English to Europe :
( Quotations follow '' .
Viewed from afar , the CDC looks like a rather stalwart political pyramid : its elected directorate fans out into an array of district leaders and standing committees , and thence into its component clubs and affiliated groups -- 500 or so .
British common sense is proverbial .
3
`` President Kennedy's enlargement of the American military program was welcomed on Wall Street as a stimulus to the American munitions industry .
In all probability , the council will screen and endorse candidates for the Assembly and for Congress , and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary favorites .
Chairman Khrushchev and John McCloy had a terrible row at Sochi .
This is going to be a language lesson , and you can master it in a few minutes .
TASS datelined Los Angeles , in English to Europe :
`` U.S. pressure on Britain to foster war hysteria over the status of West Berlin has reached its apogee .
-- Blueprints for doubling the CDC's present 55,000 enrollment .
All I could remember was Billie Dove pasted over the ceiling of my big brother's room .
Now , to translate from the Communese , this means :
When the stock exchange opened this morning , many dealers were quick to purchase shares in Douglas , Lockheed and United Aircraft and prices rose substantially .
Moscow Radio in Russian to the USSR :
Once you learn how to translate Communese , much of each day's deluge of news will become clearer .
state and county committeemen , CDC directors and representatives , members of 16 area clubs , and `` all residents '' have been invited .
Moscow radio from the Literary Gazette in English to England :
See , Communese is easy -- once you get onto it .
Moreover , the entire state Democratic hierarchy , from Gov. Brown on down to the county chairmen , also participates in this huge operation .
There is evidence that it will be happily received by Gov. Brown and the other constitutional incumbents .
Washington apparently decided to use an old formula , by injecting large military appropriations to speed the slow revival of the U.S. economy after a prolonged slump '' .
Chairman Khrushchev ( Kennedy ) rattles his rockets ( sabre ) in order to cure his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position .