A 62-year-old Smithfield man , Lester E. Stone of 19 Beverly Circle , was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of Fatima Hospital , North Providence , with injuries suffered when a car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue in North Providence near Stevens Street .
The others were valued at $325 , $75 and $65 .
They told police the intruders took a mink coat worth $700 , a black Persian lamb jacket worth $450 ; ;
About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board of tax assessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the last two days at the town hall in Centredale .
All contributed will be acknowledged .
He identified the man as Lewis Martin Parker , 59 , a farmer of Hartselle , Ala. .
On Sept. 6 , the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship .
In August while stopping in Greenock , Scotland , three members of the crew on liberty rendered first aid to a girl who fell from a train .
Persons who find it convenient may send their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office at 823 Park Avenue .
Hospital officials said the injury was severe but the youth was in good condition last night .
The decoration will be presented by A. Trichieri , Italian consul general in Boston , at a ceremony at 30 p.m. on Dec. 7 at the plant , which this year is celebrating its golden anniversary .
The power was off for about five minutes in houses along Smith Street as far away as Fruit Hill Avenue shortly before 5 p.m. when the accident occurred .
Birmingham , Ala. -- ( AP )
The first incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H. Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts .
At the opening of the trial , the jury panel was questioned as a group by Mr. Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections .
One house was without power for about half an hour , a Narragansett Electric Co. spokesman said .
Employes of Pawtucket's garbage and rubbish collection contractor picketed the firm's incinerator site yesterday in the second day of a strike for improved wages and working conditions .
A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital administrator , Oliver G. Pratt , yesterday by Governor Notte .
The arrest of Mr. Parker marks the third charge of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case .
He asked members of the panel to tell him if anyone outside the court had spoken to them about the case .
The award , without interest , compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the property by the property owners' real estate expert , and a valuation of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert .
These were the last two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals .
Two members of the panel later told in court about receiving telephone calls at their homes from anonymous persons expressing interest in the trial .
Neither was seated on the jury .
The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River .
F. Morris Cochran , university vice president and business manager , said the house has been bought to provide rental housing for faculty families , particularly for those here for a limited time .
-- The FBI yesterday arrested on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach a verdict in the `` Freedom Rider '' bus burning trial four weeks ago .
One member of the panel -- not Mr. Parker -- indicated he had been a member of the KKK at one time .
( Thornton ) where he had been driven by a companion .
Supt. Clarence S. Taylor had recommended Roger I. Vermeersch for the post .
a wallet with $450 in it ; ;
They also will visit properties on which appeals have been made .
Mr. Vernava was uninjured .
Local authorities credited the men with saving the girl's life .
About 75 persons appeared at that time .
Cranston residents have been generous contributors to the fund over the years .
New York -- ( UPI )
Mr. Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician , Dr. Allan A. DiSimone , who treated him .
Before hitting the pole , Mr. Stone's car brushed against a car driven by Alva W. Vernava , 21 , of 23 Maple Ave. , North Providence , tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of the Vernava car , police said .
Vincent Sorrentino , founder and board chairman of the Uncas Mfg. Co. , has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Italy .
He will take over his new post Jan. 1 .
Scores of Cranston children will be remembered .
The impact with the utility pole caused a brief power failure in the immediate area of the accident .
The Kochaneks told police they left home at 8 a.m. and returned about 45 p.m. and found the house had been entered .
Then , when the case went to the jury , the judge excused one of the jurors , saying the juror had told him he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the trial opened .
About 500 employes of the firm will be on hand to witness bestowal of the honor upon Mr. Sorrentino .
Appeals were heard for two days two weeks ago .
He was not seated on the jury .
Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000 damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave. , Providence , and which was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95 .
John Pezza , 69 , of 734 Hartford Avenue , Providence , complained of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio , 25 , of 12 DeSoto St. , Providence , on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in Johnston yesterday .
Mr. Parrillo was given first aid at Johnston Hose 1 .
The property included a one-story brick manufacturing building on 8,293 square feet of land .
The division said it would be impossible to work on the line until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants in the area flowing through the line , heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy Street and tide conditions .
The work added eight beds to the hospital , giving it a total capacity of 646 general beds .
Mr. Giorgio was uninjured .
Mr. Stone suffered fractured ribs and chest cuts , hospital authorities said .
One of the eight defendants was freed on a directed verdict of acquittal .
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills Drive at about 6 last night .
Saul Hodosh represented the owners .
Sydney Larson , a staff representative for the United Steel Workers , which the firm's 25 workers joined before striking , said the state Labor Relations Board has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent .
The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme Court , it appeared last night .
U.S. Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint , charged that the juror gave false information when asked about Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury .
The fund's statewide quota this year is $8,250 to provide Christmas gifts for needy youngsters .
Dr. Hester , also one of the youngest men ever to head a major American university , succeeds Dr. Carroll V. Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc. publishing firm .
Both cars were slightly damaged .
In its ruling , the state Board of Education upheld Dr. Michael F. Walsh , state commissioner of education , who had ruled previously that the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F. Tougas as coordinator of audio-visual education without first finding that the school superintendent's candidate was not suitable .
Bernard Parrillo , 20 , of 19 Fletcher Ave. , Cranston , was admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a.m. yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying discharged against his heel .
A mistrial was declared in the case against the other seven when the jury was unable to agree on a verdict .
The award was made by Judge Fred B. Perkins who heard their petition without a jury by agreement of the parties .
The watch was valued at $125 and the earrings at $85 .
The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore .
Mr. Giorgio had started to turn left off Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck by the Pezza car , police said .
The judge replaced the juror with an alternate .
Thomas Rotelli , head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service , Inc. , said four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with both newly hired and regular workers .
Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs , jewels , foreign coins and American dollars .
Louis H. Grenier , clerk of the board , said that the appeals will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new construction sites in the town for assessment purposes .
Prior to that he was associated with Long Island University in Brooklyn .
Drawers and cabinets in two bedrooms and a sewing room were ransacked .
Dr. Hester , of Princeton , N.J. , is a native of Chester , Pa. He joined NYU in September , 1960 .
Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year from Cranston residents .
One of the rings was a white gold band with a diamond setting , valued at $900 .
A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by Brown University from Lawrence J. Sullivan , according to a deed filed Monday at City Hall .
No formal charges have been filed as a result of either of the two reported incidents .
a collection of English , French and German coins , valued at $500 ; ;
Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent appeared for the state .
He was taken to the hospital by the North Providence ambulance .
The new president is 37-year-old Dr. James McN. Hester , currently dean of the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Sciences .
Eight men were tried together in U.S. District Court in Anniston , Ala. , on charges of interfering with interstate transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders .
Mr. Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec. 7 at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel .
Two members of the Democratic-endorsed majority on the school board said they probably would vote to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education , which said yesterday that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of the coordinator , Francis P. Nolan 3rd , the Democratic-endorsed committee chairman , could not be reached for comment .
-- The New York University Board of Trustees has elected the youngest president in the 130-year history of NYU , it was announced yesterday .
The perjury charge against Mr. Parker carries a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction .
The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital , part of Rhode Island Hospital .
The two had been hunting in the Simmonsville area of town and Mr. Parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground .
Patrolman Robert J. Nunes , who investigated , said the thieves broke in through the back door .
four rings , a watch and a set of pearl earrings .
Any adjustments which are made , Mr. Grenier said earlier this month , will appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year .
Public school children have adopted the fund as one of their favorite Christmas charities and their pennies , nickels , dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping Santa to reach the fund's goal .
The bus was burned outside Anniston .
The juror said the masked men had advised him to be lenient .