Mr. and Mrs. Merrill Shoup have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few days at the Brown Palace Hotel .
Her day starts early , but no matter how many pressing letters there are to be written ( and during May , which is National Salvation Army Week , there are plenty ) , schedules to be made or problems to be solved , Mrs. Marr's office is always open and the welcome mat is out .
There are even motels for local weather peculiarities in Shamrock , Tex. , as I discovered .
Motorists like myself who can remember the old `` tourists accommodated '' signs on farm houses and village homes before World War 2 , can only marvel at the great size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business .
The job also covers a number of other items .
Guests were juniors in the public high schools .
Parents of the bride are Mr. and Mrs. Ferris M. Gay , 7034 Coronado .
A reception was held at the church .
That made up for the `` best '' motel in Norman , Okla. , where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture .
The Rev. Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church .
Lee Jackson and Ken Smith , both of Houston , and Alfred Neumann of Beaumont seated guests .
That is where we turn in the good old summertime .
Cocktails will be served from 6 to 7 p.m. , with dinner at 7 and entertainment in the main dining room immediately following .
She sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and explains procedures .
Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid of honor , and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man .
Home is where a man was born , reared , went to school and , most particularly , where grandma is .
The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park , Calif. .
After a reception at The Mayfair , the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans , La. .
Mrs. Stanley Wright is ticket chairman and Mrs. Theodore Pate is in charge of publicity .
Miss Joan Frances Baker , a graduate of SMU , was married Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason , an honor graduate of Lamar State College of Technology , in the chapel of the First Presbyterian Church of Houston .
Her veil was caught to a pearl headdress , and she carried stephanotis and orchids .
At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester , Va. , we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite , an elegant affair with wall-to-wall carpeting , gold and white furniture , pink satin brocade chairs , 24-inch TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels .
In addition to the tickets to the movies , sporting events and concerts , Mrs. Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system .
The bridegroom is the son of Mrs. James Baines of Los Angeles , Calif. , and Carl E. Howard of Santa Monica , Calif. .
Some even boast two pools , one for adults and one for children .
He is a graduate of UCLA and Perkins School of Theology , Aj .
Honor attendants for the couple were Miss Sandra Branum and Warren V. McRoberts .
The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl Loving Jr. , who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip to New Orleans , La.
`` Mom '' Marr , as the more than 80 men at the center call her , is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society .
Oxnard , Calif. , will be the home of the Rev. Robert D. Howard and his bride , the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay , who were married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. R.L. Rickenbaugh and Mr. and Mrs. E.O. Kelsey of Scarsdale , N.Y. .
Members of the committee include Mrs. Milton Bernet , Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , Mrs. Rollie W. Bradford , Mrs. Samuel Butler Jr. , Mrs. Donald Carr Campbell , Mrs. Douglas Carruthers , Mrs. John C. Davis 3 , , Mrs. Cris Dobbins , Mrs. William E. Glass , Mrs. Alfred Hicks 2 , , Mrs. Donald Magarrell , Mrs. Willett Moore , Mrs. Myron Neusteter , Mrs. Richard Gibson Smith , Mrs. James S. Sudier 2 , and Mrs. Thomas Welborn .
Many with pools
Robert Lovelace and Cedric Burgher Jr. seated guests .
No matter how many Americans go abroad in summer , probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car , throw suitcases , kids and comic books in the back seat , and head for home .
`` Usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his fellow men '' , Mrs. Marr explained .
Fashion show
The first committee meeting will be held on May 19 .
There are motels for all purposes and all tastes .
The Bassis are leaving soon for their new post .
Dr. W. B. I. Martin officiated , and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
In another four weeks , with schools closed across the nation , the great all-American summer safari will be under way .
Back to w. coast
Gene Marshall , genial manager of the club , has announced that the Garden of the Gods will open to members Thursday , June 1 .
There will be a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season .
The event , staged yearly by Neusteters , will be held in the Opera House Wednesday , Aug. 16 .
Miss Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor , and bridesmaids were Miss Pat Dawson of Austin , Mrs. Howard M. Dean of Hinsdale , Ill. , and Mrs. James A. Reeder of Shreveport , La. .
Members and guests will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40 rooms and suites , each with its own private patio .
Cecil Mason of Hartford , Conn. , was best man for his brother , and groomsmen were Rhodes S. Baker 3 , of Houston , Dr. James Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans , La. .
The Rev. Richard Freeman of Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs. Marvin Hand presented music .
Her veil was caught to a crown , and she carried gardenias and stephanotis .
Her position covers a number of daily tasks common to any social director .
And where is `` home '' , that magic place of the heart ? ?
Brig. Gen. and Mrs. Robert F. McDermott will entertain at a black tie dinner Wednesday , May 3 , in the Officers' Club at the Air Force Academy .
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Chase announce the birth of a daughter , Sheila , on Wednesday in Mercy Hospital .
All for $14 ! !
set for influx
The bride , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa , has attended Texas Woman's University and will continue her studies at Aj .
Innumerable motels from Tucson to New York boast swimming pools ( `` swim at your own risk '' is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools ) .
By mid-June , millions of Americans will take to the road on vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely land .
Mrs. Marr also has a number of parolees to `` mother '' , watching to see that they do not break their parole and that they also learn to readjust to society .
The pert , gray-haired woman who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo , N.Y. , is a `` civilian '' with the Army .
They will live in Corpus Christi .
Mr. and Mrs. Piero De Luise will honor Italian Consul and Mrs. Emilio Bassi at a cocktail party Tuesday , May 2 , from 6 to 8 p.m. in their home .
All for $14 .
Mrs. McIntosh Buell will leave Sunday to return to her home in Santa Barbara , Calif. , after spending a week in her Polo Grounds home .
Ah , that is simple .
Dan Beam presented music and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
Mrs. Roger Mead is head of the luncheon table decorations .
They will live at 2705 Fitzhugh after a wedding trip to Corpus Christi .
Beginning July 4 , there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday and Monday for the summer season .
`` And I bum tickets to everything I can '' , she said .
She wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline .
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Kelsey of Washington , D.C. , announce the birth of a daughter , Kira Ann Kelsey , on Monday in Washington , D.C. .
Maybe motel-keeping isn't the nation's biggest industry , but it certainly looks that way from the highway .
Mrs. John C. Vroman Jr. of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman Plaza apartment .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Chase and Mr. and Mrs. Guy Mullenax of Kittredge .
Cocktail party
A cheery smile , a compassionate interest in others and a practical down-to-earth approach .
The committee for the annual Central City fashion show has been announced by Mrs. D. W. Moore , chairman .
There the Royal Motel advertises `` all facilities , vented heat , air conditioned , carpeted , free TV , storm cellar '' .
By July 1 , six weeks from now , motel-keepers all over the nation will , by 6 p.m. , be switching on that bleak -- to motorists -- sign , `` No Vacancy '' .
But the Royal Motel in Shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort and security of a storm cellar .
Music for dancing will be furnished by Allen Uhles and his orchestra , who will play each Saturday during June .
Mrs. Chase is the former Miss Mary Mullenax .
The Denverite has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities of the center .
`` I've become the greatest beggar in the world '' .
It will be preceded by luncheon in the Teter House .
Mrs. Kelsey is the former Miss Ann Rickenbaugh .
Miss Betsy Parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security Life Bldg. .
Those qualities make Esther Marr a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social Center at 1200 Larimer St. .
Parents of the couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs. Meredith and Mrs. Hardy P. Mills of Floresville and the late Mr. Mills .
The land lies ready for the coming onslaught .
Miss Shirley Joan Meredith , a former student of North Texas State University , was married Saturday to Larry W. Mills , who has attended Arlington State College .
After being closed for seven months , the Garden of the Gods Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday , June 3 .
She wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques .
The bride , daughter of Rhodes Semmes Baker Jr. of Houston and the late Mrs. Baker , was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at Aj .
Mrs. Marr is the first contact a Skid Row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up .
I hope it can be said without boasting that no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty of scene , such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and such decent , far-flung over-night accommodations .
Mrs. J. Edward Hackstaff and Mrs. Paul Luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , who celebrates her birthday on Tuesday .
I can testify that motels , service and comfort stations ( they go together like Scots and heather ) , dog wagons , roadside restaurants , souvenir stands and snake farms are braced and waiting .
Her husband , who is the son of Alton John Mason of Shreveport , La. , and the late Mrs. Henry Cater Parmer , was president of Alpha Tau Omega and a member of Delta Sigma Pi at Lamar Tech , and did graduate work at Rhodes University in Grahamstown , South Africa , on a Rotary Fellowship .
The bride was given in marriage by her father .
My husband and I , a month ahead of the rush , have just finished a 7-day motor journey of 2809 miles from Tucson , Ariz. , to New York City :